1.What are some new things happening in the web?
ans: a. Web 3.0 is a hot-topic among the web developers right now because it is coming with many new advance technologies 
     which we lack in web 2.0.
     b. New frameworks are getting introduced with more advance features than the existing ones.

2.Explain a project that you have built?
ans: During my time at MAsai i have built 3-Projects and now i want to discuss about main project which we have done at
     the end of our curriculum which is a clone of healthkart.
     a. We have used React, Redux, Express, Mongodb, Nodejs in this project.
     b. we have included all the important features that the original website has like a mega dropdown, sorting,
        filtering, adding products to cart and wishlist and checking out successfully after the payment.
     c. We have made our UI almost similar to the original website and it is completely responsive to all the screen sizes


3.Whats something exciting that you have built?
ans: The main project which we have made in our last unit is very exciting one because it has backend incorporated with 
     frontend and anyone who's using that website will wonder if it is real. One has to visit our website to experience 
     what i am talking about. 
      
4.What are you most excited about?
ans:Learning. It is like food to my brain. Learning new things will always excite me.

5.Why do coding standards matter? What are some patterns you follow?
ans: organizations want their programmers to maintain to some well-defined and standard style of coding called coding standards.
     a. A coding standard gives a uniform appearance to the codes written by different engineers.
     b. It improves readability, and maintainability of the code and it reduces complexity also.
     c. It helps in code reuse and helps to detect error easily.
     Patterns I follow:
     a. Writing meaningful and understandable names for variables, functions etc.
     b. Using white spaces properly for indetification of different things.
     c. Adding comments where ever it is necessary for easy understanding.
     d. Making sure that the length of my function is not large.
     e. Breaking down my code into multiple files where each file has specific task different from others. 

6.How do you go about managing responsive websites?
ans: a. setting appropriate responsive breakpoints.
     b. Using responsive images and videos
     c. Designing the website by keeping touchscreens in mind.
     d. Testing in real devices.

7.What do you care about the most when you write software?
ans: Analysis. Analyzing what we want and how to approach that is very crucial step in my opinion. If this is done right
     then we can easily go to Desiging, Coding and Testing the software.

8.What is web 3.0?
ans: web 1.0(1991-2004) --> just static pages which shows information. There is no interaction(read only)
     web 2.0(2004-now) --> interaction between user and webpage is introduced. Started storing data of users and sell it to 
                           advetizers. It is the age of targeted advertizing and lack of privacy. The content we see is 
                           what we have given to the site(different to each person ex: facebook)
     web 3.0(future) --> till now user i.e consumers are products but now we can be owner sole owner of our data.
                           ai driven services, blockchain technology helps in decentralized data storage